Discipline can be painful, appreciating it for what it truly is, takes faith.
Moses!
Mary, oh it's so good to see you.
I've missed you. It is time.
I'll be exalted. Please. Don't give up on me.
Miriam was well known in the camp of Israel.
She enjoyed a close relationship with her brothers, Moses and Aaron.
During the slavery in Egypt and the Exodus that followed, the people had grown to respect and love her.
Zipura!
Oh welcome back.
Aaron. Zipura.
Perhaps at first Miriam was pleased to have Zipura back.
How is Zipura settling in?
Well, everyone seems excited. Don't you think?
But it seems that in time, she gave him to pride.
She might have felt threatened.
Thank you, Zipura.
Thinking that Zipura would replace her as the most prominent woman in the nation.
In any case, Miriam and Aaron engaged in negative talk.
But she's a kushite.
And when she's his wife?
Yes. But she's not one of us.
Who knows how she influences him?
At first, their talk focused on Zipura.
But it soon escalated into complaining about Moses himself.
Book.
The people need leadership.
And they trust us.
Miriam.
Jehovah is leading the people.
You're not listening.
Miriam, where are we?
We are suffering out here.
Some have questioned my brothers.
Something has to be done.
She says his kushite life is destroyed.
I just don't understand who I am.
I'm tired of this.
We suffered in Egypt.
And we're suffering here.
Miriam is worried.
Maybe there's a better way.
Moses is still qualified to lead the nation.
Maybe Jehovah wants us to do so.
Maybe we have to listen to Moses.
I'm sure other people feel the same.
And we're suffering here.
Why do we have to listen to Moses?
Let's jump back.
Maybe Jehovah wants us to do so.
Is it only by Moses that Jehovah has spoken?
Has he not also spoken to us?
The three of you.
To the tantam meeting.
Hear my words.
Please.
It is not that way with my servant Moses.
Face to face I speak to him.
And the appearance of Jehovah is what he sees.
Why then?
Did you not fear to speak against my servant?
Against Moses?
I beg you, my Lord.
Please do not hold us sin against us.
We have acted foolishly.
Please do not let her continue like someone dead.
Oh, God, please heal her, please.
Let her be quarantined for seven days.
Afterward, she may be brought back.
Jehovah, you are the most high.
You chose Moses to lead your people and I.
I disrespected him.
And you, please, please forgive me.
Miriam was not defined by her mistakes.
Shall I go and call a nursing woman from the Hebrews?
To miss the child free.
It is time.
Jehovah will bless you and Aaron.
Jehovah disciplines those he loves.
Miriam accepted his discipline with faith.
She was restored to God's favor
and continued serving faithfully for decades.
In centuries afterward, Jehovah lovingly honored Miriam
for her faithful service.
Through his prophet Micah, he reminded his people.
From the house of slavery I redeemed you.
I sent before you, Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.